today on how - we are making cow food or
crab fried rice Fatiha
welcome to hot tile kitchen today we're
making something very simple and super
delicious we're making Khao pad or fried
rice which is one of those staple lunch
items in Thailand now Kao means rice and
Pat means to stir-fry so it's a very
simple translation there but
specifically we are making cow poo or
crab fried rice which is one of my
favourite and most popular variation but
you can do Khao pad move with pork
how about guide with chicken or help it
go with shrimp so it's completely up to
you so let's get started let's talk
about rice because it's the most
important thing and this dish I have
here one and a half cup of cooked white
rice pack it down when you measure it by
weight it's about nine and a half ounces
now I'm using here jasmine rice which is
the one that we normally aged in
Thailand and it's important to use
jasmine rice because it actually has a
unique fragrance even when it's raw when
you open a bag of jasmine rice there's
that beautiful floral smell that you can
that's unique from other kinds of rice
the most important thing about rice with
fried rice is that it cannot be too
mushy over cooked too much water in it
because you will then get mushy fried
rice so the rice has to be cooked
through but the grains maintain
integrity it shouldn't be it shouldn't
look like it's bursted or the edges are
starting to kind of get a little bit
soft and I cook this rice yesterday it's
actually better to do fried rice we're
not better but easier to do fried rice
with cold rice because the grains
separate more easily
we don't tend to clump up as much short
grain rice will not work for this
because they tend to be a little sticky
and longer super long green like basmati
rice is not quite as fluffy so jasmine
rice is perfect for this so there we've
got that other than that there's not a
whole lot of prep to do we've got three
to four cloves of garlic already chopped
and we've got one green onion cut into
rounds now if you've got if you've got a
green onion that's really fat in the
white part make sure you're running
knife horizontally across this way
otherwise you get big chunks of green
onion in your mouth and that's not fun
and then seasoning every Thai cook has
their own version of salting agent for
fried rice ever most people agree on soy
sauce but I've seen every combination
out there with fish sauce oyster sauce
salt golden mountain sauce so I'm giving
you my version which isn't to say that
it's the correct one or anything it's
just the one that I like best so I've
got 2 teaspoons of soy sauce and 1
teaspoon of fish sauce ok now let's talk
about soy sauce a little bit this is a
recipe where if you can get your hand on
Thai soy sauce it will actually make a
difference
not all soy sauces are created equal
Thai Chinese Japanese soy sauce is all
differ in flavor and color Thai version
is lighter in both color and flavor and
in my opinion and I'm a little bit
biased it's a little bit more fragrant
and we call this EU cow or literally
white soy sauce even though it's not
white but it's named to contrast see you
dumb or black soy sauce which is a
thicker darker sweeter version so if you
can't find this I'm using healthy
boyfriend you can use any sort of
soy sauce all right so that's that for
seasoning other than that I've got three
ounces or about 85 grams of Dungeness
crap you can use frozen or canned or
whatever this is fresh or any other type
of protein if you're using raw protein
like chicken or pork I like to marinate
it a little bit with soy sauce so it has
some flavor and we've got one egg some
white pepper and half teaspoon of sugar
and that's pretty much it let's go to
the stove so I've got here a couple
tablespoons of vegetable oil in a
non-stick pan if you got a a wok right
I don't well not one that would work
with this though anyway um so once the
oil is hot you can add in some garlic
okay now if you're using raw protein
which were not today but if you are
using raw protein once the garlic starts
to turn a little bit Brown the smallest
bit starts turn brown that's when you
want to add your raw protein cook it to
60% then add your a hey but we're using
cooks protein so we're going to add that
with the rice so the smallest bit of
garlic has oops
turn brown we're going to break the yolk
let it set for a little bit don't
scramble it right away and when it set a
little bit scramble gently now you want
to scramble it gently and not right away
because otherwise your egg just turns
into complete mush you're still going to
want pieces okay now that you've got X
on what set you're going to go in with
the rice
break it down a little bit keep cold
rice break down easier with the crab
break it down give it a quick toss then
you're going to go in with the
seasonings they're soft and soy sauce
already in here have a seat spoon of
sugar a little bit of sweetness just cut
the salt couple of dash of white pepper
for some heat
and now you're just going to cook it
until all the rice is heat up and the
sauce has been thoroughly distributed
now I'm using cold rice but if you have
hot rice it doesn't mean that you can't
use it in restaurants we use hot rice
all the time because now there's no
sense keeping a whole other set of cool
rice it just becomes a little bit harder
you need more attention and breaking it
apart let it sit for a little bit to the
store so I've got on medium-high heat
final boss and then that's pretty much
done if you if you're not sure if it's
done you can just feel it with your
finger to see if it's hot give all the
rice isn't hot and if it is go into the
green onion you want to add cilantro to
this go for it and that's it
that's done let's go over there and put
so this feeds me twice but it's for big
growing boy it's probably more like one
large portion
that now it's not over you want to serve
this always with a Weddington I'm okay
and I'll I'm going to cut line we tell
it like this we don't cut moon wedges
it's actually easier to grip in space
like that
there goes lime some cucumber and it's
the cucumbers a nice palate cleanser
actually this is kind of heavy so I'm
using a julienne peeler just great for
papaya salad just do a couple of peels
decorative leash you don't have to do
this of course I'm just trying to make
it nice a couple of slices right here
and then I'm going to show you how I
like to eat this squeeze a lime all over
and the acid in the lime really cuts the
salt and the the oil and makes this that
much more delicious some chili powder or
pick four for some heat and my favorite
condiment prick numb flat now I've got a
whole video on Thai condiment so you can
go and check those out if you like but
this is a mixture of Thai chilies fish
sauce and or some lime chopped garlic
whatever a little bit extra and mix
everything up together
and we're ready to eat so I'm going to
go and eat now thanks for tuning in and
for the written recipe please visit my
website on youtube.com and I see you
next time